Postman is the world's largest public API hub with 100000+ APIs, where users can use its platform for building and using APIs.

## Postman Platform Components:
### 1. API Repository ((Core)):
It is a cloud-based version-controlled repository for all API artifacts throughout the whole API life cycle; specifications, documentation, metrics, test cases, and permissions.

### 2. Tools:
It offers plenty of tools for designing, testing, mocking, monitoring API's health, and documenting.

### 3. Intelligence:
* Sending alerts and security warnings
* Search in repositories
* Reporting (for data lovers)

### 4. Workspaces:
* Personal
* Private (for businesses)
* Team (each member has a role)
* Public

### 5. Integration:
* It is considered an API-First Development platform, as it integrates with most essential tools in the software development pipeline.
* It integrates intuitively with old repositories.
* Provides quality development through integration.

## A Few Points About Postman:
* Postman allows managing cookies, creating custom domains, and adding cookies to them.
* By interacting with Postman's API platform and API interfaces we can:
  1. Manage API data
  2. Keep track of request history
  3. Generate code snippets
  4. Turn API data into charts and graphs through the visualizer
* Edits in a Postman workspace synced with teammates in real-time.

## Postman Sidebar:
### 1. Collection:
  Group together saved requests.
### 2. Mock Servers:
  To simulate requests when the production API is still under development.
### 3. Monitor:
  Continuous visibility into the health and performance of your APIs.
### 4. APIs
### 5. Environments
### 6. Flows
### 7. History
