# Common Commands in JavaScript
In JavaScript, semicolons (`;`) are not strictly required at the end of every line of code. However, semicolons are highly recommended for the following reasons:
* **Clarity and Consistency**: Explicitly adding semicolons makes your code easier to read and maintain, especially for others or for your future self. It avoids ambiguity and ensures consistent interpretation.
* **Automatic Semicolon Insertion (ASI)**: While ASI can insert semicolons in some cases, it's not foolproof. It might not work as expected in complex or minified code, leading to unexpected errors.

## 1. Pop-Up Boxes
### I. Alert
    alert("String")
A pop-up with one "Ok" button
### II. Confirm
    confirm("String")
It sends two sonsecutive pop-ups; second one is for confirmation.
### III. Prompt
    var s = prompt("Enter your pin code")        // stores the input in the variable s
    document.write(s)
Gives a space for user input.
    
## 2. Declaring New Variables
    let newVariable1 = "value1"    // mutable
    var newVariable2 = "value2"    // mutable, but function scoped

## 3. If Conditional
    if (var == "value) alert('var value is right')
## 4. Loging Text or String Out in the Console
    console.log("String")
## 5. Get the Data Type
    console.log(typeof "data");
    console.log(typeof 2.0);
    console.log(typeof true);
## 6. Defining a Function
    function satMyName(){
        alert("Name");
    }
## 7. Declaring a Constant
    const myBrithYear = 2002    // immutable
Constants are memory places that can be assigned only to one value without getting changed in the rest of the code. Besides, constants can't be left undefined.

## 8. Operators
* Arithmatic Operators (`-`, `+`, `/`, `*`, `%` and `**`)
* Assignment Operator (`=`, `++`, `--`, `+=`, `-=`, `/=` and `*=`)
* Comparison Operators (`==`, `!=`, `===`, `!==`, `>`, `<`, `<=` and `>=`)
####
    1 == '1'     // true (equality checks the equal values)
    1 != '1'     // false
    1 === '1'    // false (strict equality checks the values and the types)
    1 !== '1'    // true

## 9. Joining Strings
    console.log("Ahmed" + " " + "Waleed")    // appends what comes after the plus sign at the end
    console.log("My age is " + 22)           // appends "22" at the end as a string not a number

## 10. Precedence in Operations
The operations of 
1. Grouping (Parentheses `()`)
2. Exponentiation (`**`)
3. Multiplication (`*`) and Division (`/`)
4. Modulus (`%`)
5. Addition (`+`) and Subtraction (`-`)
6. Comparison Operators (`<`, `>`, `<=`, `>=`, `==`, `!=`, `===`, `!==`)
7. Logical AND (`&&`)
8. Logical OR (`||`)
9. Assignment Operators (`=`, `+=`, `-=`, `*=`, `/=`, etc.)
10. Member Access (`.`), `[]`)
11. Increment/Decrement (`++`, `--`)

## 11. Writing on the Browser
### I. from an Internal Script
    <script>
        document.write("Internal Script <br/>")
    </script>
### II. from an External Script
    document.write("External Script <br/>")
and use the linking technique of adding the script in the `src` attribute.

## 12. Comments
#### I. Single Line Comment 
    // Comment
#### II. Multi-Line Comment
    /*
    Comment line 1
    Comment line 2
    */
#### III. HTML Code Comment
    <!-- Comment -->

## 13. Data Conversions
### I. Number to String
    let number = 42;
    let numberString = number.toString();
### II. String to Number
    let decimalString = "3.14";
    let decimalNumber = Number(decimalString);
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    let numberString = "123";
    let number = parseInt(numberString);
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    let hexString = "FF";
    let hexNumber = parseInt(hexString, 16);
