# Strings
	var s = "Hello World";
  	document.write("Length:"+ s.length+"<br/>");
  	document.write("index of o:"+ s.indexOf("o")+"<br/>");
	document.write("index of o:"+ s.lastIndexOf("o")+"<br/>");
  	document.write("tolowercase:"+ s.toLowerCase()+"<br/>");
  	document.write("toUpperCase:"+ s.toUpperCase()+"<br/>");
	document.write("Dispaly In Bold:"+ s.bold()+"<br/>");
  	document.write("Replace:"+s.replace("Hello","My")+"<br/>");
  	document.write("Replace:"+s.replace("H","S"));

String is a list of characters represented by either a double `" "` or a single `' '` quote-pair.

### 1. `length` method
Gets the length of a string

### 2. `indexOf()` method
Gets the index of which the character between the brackets is presented in the string.

### 3. `lastIndexOf()` method
Gets the last index of which the given character appears.

### 4. `toLowerCase()` method
Converts the whole string into lower case.

### 5. `toUpperCase()` method
Converts the whole string into upper case.

### 6. `bold()` method
Styles the whole string as bold.

### 7. `replace()` method
It takes two strings; such that the first replaces the second.


# Booleans
	var b1 = new Boolean(0);
	var b2 = new Boolean(null);
	var b3 = new Boolean("");
	var b4 = new Boolean(NaN);
	var b5 = new Boolean(1);
	var b6 = new Boolean("Hello");


	document.write(b1+"<br/>");
	document.write(b2+"<br/>");
	document.write(b3+"<br/>");
	document.write(b4+"<br/>");
	document.write(b5+"<br/>");
	document.write(b6+"<br/>");
 
 Boolean values are only `true` and `false`. In the examples above:
 1. `0` ---> `false`
 2. `null` ---> `false`
 3. `NaN` ---> `false`
 4. `""` (empty strings) ---> `false`
 5. `1` ---> `true`
 6. `"Hello"` (non-empty strings) ---> `true`


# Math
	document.write(Math.PI+"<br/>");
	document.write(Math.sqrt(9)+"<br/>")
	document.write(Math.pow(2,4)+"<br/>")
	document.write(Math.floor(3.8)+"<br/>");
	document.write(Math.ceil(3.2)+"<br/>");
	document.write(Math.round(3.2)+"<br/>");
	document.write(Math.round(3.6)+"<br/>");

### 1. `PI` method
Gets the constant value of `π`.

### 2. `sqrt()` method
Gets the square root of the given number.

### 3. `pow()` method
Takes two numbers; such that the first is the base and the second is the power.

### 4. `floor()` method
Gets the integer part of a number.

### 5. `ceil()` method
Rounds the number to the next integer number.

### 6. `round()` method
Rounds the number with `decimalPart ≥ 0.5` to the next integer number, otherwise it takes the integer part only.

# Arrays
### 1. Creating new array, `length` method & accessing elements of the array
	var a = new Array(2, 4.56, "Ahmed");
	document.write(a + "<br/>")
	document.write(a.length + "<br/>")
	document.write(a[0] + " " + a[1] + " " + a[2] + "<br/>");
### 2. Creating array and priniting it
	var b = [2,4.56,"Bharath"];
	document.write("Array b: " + b + "<br/>");
### 3. Creating blank array and adding elements one by one
	var c = new Array();
	c[0] = 2;
	c[1] = 4.56;
	c[2] = "Ahmed";
	document.write("Array c: "+c);
 ### 4. Concatinating, Reversing and Joining Arrays
 	var a = new Array(2,4.56,"Bharath");		// new array
	var b = [15,25];				// new array
	var c = [20,30];				// new array

	a = a.concat(b,19,29,c);
	document.write(a+"<br/>");
	document.write(a.reverse()+"<br/>");

	document.write(a.join("-"));
### 5. Deleting and Replacing elements in an array
	var a = new Array(2,4.56,"Bharath");
	document.write(a+"<br/>");
	delete a[0];
	document.write(a+"<br/>");
	document.write(a[0]+"<br/>");			// prints "undefined"

	a[1] = 5.5; 
	document.write(a+"<br/>");


Arrays can hold different data types in a zero-base sequence (`0`, `1`, `2`, ... etc.), which has dynamic length (accessed by `length method`).

# Date
	<html>
		<head>
			<title>Date</title>
			<script>
				function continuousDisplay(){
					setInterval(displayDate,1000);				// Recalls displayDate method every 1000 ms (1 sec)
				}
				function displayDate(){
					var d = new Date();
					//var x = d.toLocaleTimeString();			// Displays Time only
					//var x = d.toLocaleDateString();			// Displays Date only
					var x = d.toLocaleString();				// Displays both Date and Time
					document.getElementById("dateinfo").innerHTML = x;
				}
			</script>
		</head>

		<body onload="continuousDisplay()">
			Current Date:<br/>
			<p id="dateinfo"></p>
		</body>
	</html>
