### Git and GitHub
Git is a version control program, while github is a cloud-based git repository hosting platform.

### Version Control
1. A version both the content of a file compined with its metadata (author, type, location and when it was last saved).
2. Simultaneous and continuous file development
3. Being able to see different versions, combine them or revert changes

Git is a scalable open source version control system that is popular for computer programming and data projects. It is used for:
1. Storing everything
2. Notifying the presence of conflicting content in files
3. Synchronizing work across different people and computers

The Shell or the terminal is the program for executing commands, in addition to previewing, modifying and inspecting files and directories (folders).

### Git Project
It is classified into three parts all in a so called git repository (often refered as 'repo'):
1. The files which store the information of the project.
2. The directory which stores the file(s).
3. The .git directory about the project history (which is a hidden directory that should not be edited). This directory is loacted in the main directory of the repo.

#### #Saving a draft = placing in the Staging area.
#### #Saving file(s)/updating the repo = executing a commit.
Staging area is like putting the letter in the envelope, while making a commit is to put this envelope in a mail box. In staging area we can still make changes, while by making a commit we can not change on the version committed, we need to make a new version.
