### A few key points about data stored in SQL databases:
* Data in databases is stored in tables that can be thought of just like a bunch of Excel spreadsheets.
* All the data in the same column must match in terms of data type. The entire column is considered either quantitative, discrete, or as some sort of string. This means if you have one row with a string in a particular column, the entire column might change to a text data type. This can be very bad if you want to do math with this column!
* Consistent column types are one of the main reasons working with databases is fast, even with large databases.

# SQL Formating
1. Despite SQL queries being not case-sensitive, it is common and best practice to capitalize all SQL commands, like `SELECT` and `FROM`, and keep everything else in your query lower case.
2. SQL queries ignore spaces, so you can add as many spaces and blank lines between code as you want, and the queries are the same.
#### This query
      SELECT account_id FROM orders

#### is equivalent to this query:
      SELECT account_id
      FROM orders

3. Semicolons depend on your SQL environment.
Your query may need a semicolon at the end to execute. Other environments are more flexible in terms of a semicolon at the end of the query being a "requirement". However, it is considered best practice to put a semicolon at the end of each statement, which also allows you to run multiple queries at once if your environment allows this.

## Most popular SQL statements to understand:
1. `CREATE TABLE` is a statement that creates a new table in a database.
2. `DROP TABLE` is a statement that removes a table in a database.
3. `SELECT` allows you to read data and display it. This is called a query.

# 1. SELECT ... FROM ....
1. `SELECT` indicates which column(s) name(s) you want to be given the data for, separated by commas.
2. `SELECT DISTINCT` statement is used to return only distinct (unique) column values or columns' combinations (in case there are more than one column selected).
3. `AS` is used to give a name, or so called "alias", to a new derived column or a current column that you want to display under different name in this query.
4. `FROM` specifies from which table(s) you want to select these columns.
5. `WHERE` statement allows you to filter data based on a specific condition.
6. `ORDER BY` statement allows us to sort our results using the data in any column(s) ascendingly.
7. `LIMIT` statement is useful when you want to see just the first few rows of a table.

#### SELECT and FROM statements are both necessary for the query to be evaluated, while the rest are optional statements.

### SELECT query structure with all of the past statement within:   
     SELECT DISTINCT Column1_Name, Column2_Name, Column3_Name + Column4_Name AS Descriptive_New_Column_Name
     FROM Table_Name
     WHERE Condition
     ORDER BY Sort1_Column_Name, Sort2_Column_Name DESC , Sort3_Column_Name
     LIMIT Number;

### Note that:
* `SELECT` does not create columns.
* Writing `*` after `SELECT` instead of column names means selecting all the columns.
* We can use all arithmetic operators ( + , - , / , * , parenthese, ... etc.) in deriving new columns.
* When you provide a list of columns in an ORDER BY command, the sorting occurs using the leftmost column in your list first, then the next column from the left, and so on.
* In `ORDER BY` statement we can write `DESC` after the column we want to order the data by descendingly, in order to to sort in descending order, as the default is to sort in ascending order. `DESC` works only on the one column that comes exactly before it.
* Common symbols used in WHERE statements include:
  * Numeric: (`>` --- greater than), (`<` --- less than), (`>=` --- greater than or equal to), (`<=` --- less than or equal to), (`=` --- equal to) and (`!=` --- not equal to)
  * Non-numeric: `LIKE`, `NOT`, `IN`, `AND`, `BETWEEN`, `OR`, (`=` --- equal to) and (`!=` --- not equal to)

### Logical Operators:
1. `LIKE` This allows you to perform operations similar to using `WHERE` and `=`, but for cases when you might not know exactly what you are looking for. We use `%` where we do not know the filling. 
2. `IN` This allows you to perform operations similar to using `WHERE` and `=`, but for a list of condition(s) or values.
3. `NOT` This is used with `IN` and `LIKE` to select all of the rows `NOT LIKE` or `NOT IN` a certain condition.
4. `AND` & `BETWEEN` These allow you to combine operations where all combined conditions must be true.

   For Numerical values: `WHERE column >= 6 AND column <= 10` is equivalent to `WHERE column BETWEEN 6 AND 10`.

   For Timestamps: `WHERE occurred_at >= '2016-04-01' AND occurred_at <= '2016-10-01'` is equivalent to `WHERE occurred_at BETWEEN '2016-04-01' AND '2016-10-01'`.
   By the way, this will include till 2016-10-01 at midnight to the whole day.
6. `OR` This allows you to combine operations where at least one of the combined conditions must be true.

### Example 1:   
      SELECT *
      FROM orders
      WHERE account_id > 4200 AND destination = 'Cairo'
      ORDER BY occured_at
      LIMIT 1000;
### Example 2:
      SELECT id, (standard_amt_usd/total_amt_usd)*100 AS std_percent, total_amt_usd
      FROM orders
      LIMIT 10;
### Example 3:
      SELECT *
      FROM web_events
      WHERE referrer_url LIKE '%google%';

### Example 4:
      SELECT name, primary_poc, sales_rep_id
      FROM accounts
      WHERE name NOT IN ('Walmart', 'Target', 'Nordstrom');

### Example 5:
      SELECT *
      FROM orders
      WHERE (standard_qty = 0 OR gloss_qty = 0 OR poster_qty = 0)      AND      occurred_at >= '2016-10-01'

## Commands Summary
| Statement    | How to Use It	 | How to Use It	|
| -------- | ------- | ------- |
| SELECT | SELECT Col1, Col2, ... | Provide the columns you want |
| FROM | FROM Table	 | Provide the table where the columns exist |
| LIMIT | LIMIT 10	 | Limits based number of rows returned |
| ORDER BY	 | ORDER BY Col	 | Orders table based on the column. Used with DESC. |
| WHERE | WHERE Col > 5	 | A conditional statement to filter your results |
| LIKE | WHERE Col LIKE '%me%' | Only pulls rows where column has 'me' within the text |
| IN | WHERE Col IN ('Y', 'N') | A filter for only rows with column of 'Y' or 'N' |
| NOT | WHERE Col NOT IN ('Y', 'N') | NOT is frequently used with LIKE and IN |
| AND | 	WHERE Col1 > 5 AND Col2 < 3 | Filter rows where two or more conditions must be true |
| OR | WHERE Col1 > 5 OR Col2 < 3 | Filter rows where at least one condition must be true |
| BETWEEN | WHERE Col BETWEEN 3 AND 5 | Often easier syntax than using an AND |
