### NULL
`NULL` means no data. NULLs are different than a zero - they are cells where data is missing. They usually happen because of:
1. Performing and outer JOIN
2. Simply missing data in the database.

# Aggregations
Aggregators only aggregate vertically - the values of a column. If you want to perform a calculation across rows, you would do this with simple arithmetic. They usually ignore `NULL` cells.
## Aggregation Functions:
1. `COUNT()`: counts the number of rows, and it can be applied to any type of columns.
2. `SUM()`: sums the numeric values in the column.
3. `MIN()`: gets the minimum depending on the column type, it returns the lowest number, earliest date, or non-numerical value as early in the alphabet as possible.
4. `MAX()`: gets the maximum depending on the column type, it returns the highest number, the latest date, or the non-numerical value closest alphabetically to “Z”.
5. `AVG()`: returns the average (mean) of the values in a specific column.
6. `GROUP BY`: aggregates the dataset into subsets. We can `GROUP BY` multiple coulumns at once, knowing that the order of column names in a `GROUP BY` clause doesn’t matter. Any column that is not within an aggregation must show up in the `GROUP BY` statement, otherwise, it is an error.
7. `HAVING`: filters aggregate columns, because `WHERE` clause does not.
8. Dates in Databases:

   Databases store dates in form of `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`; from largest unit to smallest one.
    1. `DATE_TRUNC('day' or 'month' or 'year', column_name)`: Truncates the date column into days, months, or years.
    2. `DATE_PART('dow' or 'day' or 'month' or 'year', column_name)`: pulls a specific portion of a date, but notice pulling `month` or day of the week `dow` means that you are no longer keeping the years in order. Rather you are grouping for certain components regardless of which year they belonged in.
9. `CASE WHEN ... THEN ... ELSE ... END`: Derives new column using conditional logic (`if ... else if ... else ...` logic). We can use as many `WHEN ... THEN ...` as it is necessary for the query's proper execution. Getting the same information using a `WHERE` clause means only being able to get one set of data from the `CASE` at a time, so we can replace many `WHERE` queries with only one `CASE` query.

## Examples
### Example 1:
    SELECT *
    FROM accounts
    WHERE primary_poc IS NOT NULL

### Example 2 ((Sales Reps / Region)):
    SELECT r.name region, COUNT(s.id) sales_reps
    FROM sales_reps s
    JOIN region r
    ON r.id = s.region_id
    GROUP BY region
    ORDER BY sales_reps;

### Example 3 ((Price / Unit)):
    SELECT SUM(standard_amt_usd)/SUM(standard_qty) standard_amt_usd_per_unit
    FROM orders;

### Example 4 ((Median Calculation)):
    SELECT *
    FROM    (SELECT total_amt_usd
            FROM orders
            ORDER BY total_amt_usd
            LIMIT   (SELECT COUNT(total_amt_usd) / 2
                    FROM orders) + 1 
            ) AS Table1
    ORDER BY total_amt_usd DESC
    LIMIT 2;

### Example 5:
    SELECT a.name account, MIN(o.total_amt_usd) smallest_order_total_usd
    FROM orders o
    JOIN accounts a
    ON a.id = o.account_id
    GROUP BY account
    ORDER BY smallest_order_total_usd;

### Example 6:
    SELECT COUNT(*) 
    FROM    (SELECT a.name, COUNT(*)
            FROM accounts a
            JOIN orders o
            ON a.id = o.account_id
            GROUP BY a.name
            HAVING COUNT(*) > 20)

### Example 7 ((Get Account with the Most Orders Using Subquery, and the Numbers of Columns Instead of Their Names)):
    SELECT account, orders_num as max_orders_of_all
    FROM    (SELECT a.name account, COUNT(*) orders_num
            FROM accounts a
            JOIN orders o
            ON a.id = o.account_id
            GROUP BY 1
            )
    ORDER BY 2 DESC
    LIMIT 1;

### Example 8:
    SELECT DATE_TRUNC('month', occurred_at), SUM(o.gloss_amt_usd) total_spent_gloss
    FROM orders o
    JOIN accounts a
    ON o.account_id = a.id
    AND a.name LIKE 'Walmart'
    GROUP BY DATE_TRUNC('month', occurred_at)
    ORDER BY total_spent_gloss DESC
    LIMIT 1;

### Example 9:
    SELECT DATE_PART('month', occurred_at) ord_month, SUM(total_amt_usd) total_spent
    FROM orders
    WHERE occurred_at BETWEEN '2014-01-01' AND '2017-01-01'
    GROUP BY 1
    ORDER BY 2 DESC;

### Example 10:
    SELECT id, total,
           CASE WHEN total < 1000 THEN 'Less than 1000'
           WHEN total < 2000 THEN 'Between 1000 and 2000'
           ELSE 'At Least 2000' END order_cat
    FROM orders

## SQL Caluses In Order:
1. `SELECT`
2. `DISTINCT`, `COUNT()`, `SUM()`, `MIN()`, `MAX()`, `AVG()`, `CASE WHEN ... THEN ... ELSE ... END`
4. `FROM`
5. `JOIN`
6. `ON`
7. `WHERE`
8. `GROUP BY`
9. `HAVING` + `COUNT()`, `SUM()`, `MIN()`, `MAX()`, `AVG()` in a conditional statement
10. `ORDER BY`
11. `LIMIT`

### Date Clauses assigned to everytime the column is called:
1. `DATE_TRUNC('day' or 'month' or 'year', column_name)`
2. `DATE_PART('dow' or 'day' or 'month' or 'year', column_name)`
